ASSIGNMENT 8: 

STEP 1:-
Open Windows Explorer.
SEARCH FOR  
sonarqube.org

STEP 2:-
open home page 
and download the community edition of Sonarqube 9.9 LTS

Go to documentation and search for sonar scanner 5.01.
Click on the first result.

verify that appropriate Java version 17 is verified and configured if not download it then.
(If you have any version apart from JDK 17 then delete those settings 
because Sonarqube has an elastic search version that works only with JDK 17.)


STEP 3:-
Unzip the Sonarqube and Sonars-scanner files in a separate directory.
Make one separate directory and move these two files to one place.

STEP 4 (configuring server-side):-
Go to the environment variable and add a new variable called sonarqube.
and open the folder containing the path for the bin folder.

STEP 5:_
Go to cmd and go to the Sonarqube bin directory 

Once you enter the bin folder,
Select the appropriate operating system  bin folder and then write:  
 
(StartSonar.bat)
And once it starts successfully it will show the process is up and sonarqube is operational.

STEP 6:-
Open the web page localhost:9000 in the web browser.

It will open the login page for sonarqube
log in to the sonarqube using:

username: admin
password: admin

STEP 7:-
It will prompt you to update the password 
and change the password and continue.

The Sonarqube dashboard has been launched.
click on manually option.

STEP 8:-
Provide a project display name ( say: python test project)  and click on the setup button.

select the option locally.
click on the generate button to generate a token
click on the continue button.

STEP 9:-
Since we are working with the Python file click on others.
select Windows as the operating system.

Copy the sonar scanner execution command and paste it into the notepad and,
Download the Python folder from the teams and place that in the same folder where sonarqube files are placed.

STEP 10:-

Open a new cmd and,
Go to the sonar scanner bin folder.

Open the sonar scanner execution command in the notepad and modify the Sonar.Sources parameters and add Python files directory path over there.

STEP 11:-
Add a new property by writing at the end: 
 -D"sonar.projectBaseDir=(PATH OF PYTHO FILE)"

RUN THE COMMAND IN THE NEW TERMINAL NOW.

STEP 12:-
Check the results of the execution in the sonarqube browser.
















